.\" 
.TH "LINVPN" "8" "linvpn 3.0" "Alexandre Fiori" ""
.SH "NAME"
linvpn \- network client who provides secure layer for pppd(8)
 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBlinvpn\fR [\-u \fIuser\fR] [\-f \fIfile\fR] [\-c \fIvpn\fR] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\-r \fIsec</fR>] [\-t] [\-d] [\-v]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIlinvpn\fR is the network client daemon who provides secure layer for pppd(8) by exchanging packets with linvpnd(8).

Client must be started with \-c \fIvpn\fR where \fIvpn\fR is an entry of the configuration file linvpn.conf(5), describing two endpoints with crypto algorithm, keys and ppp addresses.
After that, it tries to connect on the server and both acts as a layer for the ppp connection. For more information about how it works see linvpnd(8).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\-u \fIuser\fR
If specified, process will set effective user id to the uid of \fIuser\fR. Default is the user \fIdaemon\fR.

.TP 
\-f \fIfile\fR
Use \fIfile\fR as configuration file instead of the default.

.TP 
\-c \fIvpn\fR
Connect on the \fIvpn\fR entry of the configuration file. In successful connections  pppd(8) will be started on both sides.

.TP 
\-p \fIport\fR
Use \fIport\fR instead of the default TCP port.

.TP 
\-r \fIsec\fR
When connection is lost by any reason client will retry to connect again after \fIsec\fR seconds. This is an infinite loop.

.TP 
\-t
Test configuration file.

.TP 
\-d
Run in debug mode, without becoming daemon. This mode will consume a lot of CPU because of excessive messages on the console and may be used only by experts to trace data transfer.

.TP 
\-v
Show version number.
.SH "FILES"
.TP 
\fI/etc/linvpn.conf\fR
Configuration file for both client and server. See linvpn.conf(5) for details.

.TP 
\fI/usr/sbin/pppd\fR
PPP daemon is used by both client and server to create local and remote network interfaces.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
linvpnd(8), linvpn.conf(5), pppd(8)
